---
layout: page
title: >-
  IBD Stock Of The Day: Apple Hits Record High, Nears $1 Trillion Milestone
image: /assets/img/stock-of-the-day/2018-08-01.jpg
date: 2018-08-01 17:20 -0700
author: PATRICK SEITZ
---






Apple stock jumped to an all-time high on Wednesday after the iPhone maker topped June-quarter views and guided higher for the current period. **Apple** ([AAPL](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=AAPL)) has broken firmly into buy range and now is within spitting distance of an unprecedented $1 trillion market value.




Apple shares soared 5.9% to 201.50, near its intraday high of 201.76, on the [stock market today](https://www.investors.com/market-trend/stock-market-today/stock-market-today-market-trends-best-stocks-buy-watch/). That gives it a market cap of $973.2 billion. It needs to reach 207.05 to hit a market value of $1 trillion. That's based on the company's most recent share count of 4.8299 billion shares outstanding as of July 20, according to its 10-Q filing Wednesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Apple shares briefly rose out of a flat base and into buy territory in late July. Shares then retreated, but its move into buy ground Wednesday appears solid enough to warrant it being [IBD's Stock Of The Day](https://www.investors.com/research/ibd-stock-of-the-day/). It also helps that the company's relative strength line, now rated 83 out of a possible 99, is pointing sharply upward.


The Cupertino, Calif.-based company late Tuesday reported better-than-expected results for its [fiscal third quarter](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2018/07/apple-reports-third-quarter-results/), thanks to robust sales of premium iPhones, wearables and services. It also guided sales above forecasts for the September quarter, when it is widely expected to introduce three new iPhone models.





IBD Newsletters
---------------


#### Get exclusive IBD analysis and actionable news daily.




SIGN UP NOW!





IBD Newsletters
---------------


#### Get exclusive IBD analysis and actionable news daily.




* Financial Advisor Update
* How To Invest
* Market Prep
* Tech Report



Please enter a valid email address
Please select a newsletter


GO
Get these newsletters delivered to your inbox & more info about our products & services. [Privacy Policy](https://www.investors.com/investors-business-daily-privacy-policy/) & [Terms of Use](https://www.investors.com/home/investors-business-daily-inc-terms-of-use/)



x



Thank You!
----------


#### You will now receive IBD Newsletters




ALL DONE!




Something Went Wrong!
---------------------


#### Please contact customer service




CLOSE




Apple earned $2.34 a share on sales of $53.3 billion in the quarter ended June 30. Analysts expected it to earn $2.18 a share on sales of $52.34 billion. On a year-over-year basis, earnings per share rose 40% and revenue increased 17%.


Accelerating Sales Growth
-------------------------


It was the company's seventh consecutive quarter of accelerating sales growth and its fourth straight quarter of double-digit revenue gains.


IPhone revenue rose 20% year over year to $29.91 billion, topping views. Unit sales rose just 1% to 41.3 million handsets, missing the consensus estimate of 42 million.


But the company sold more higher-priced models than forecast. Apple's top-of-the-line iPhone X, which starts at $999, was its best-selling model in the quarter.


The average selling price for iPhones in the June quarter was $724, compared with $606 a year earlier. Analysts on average expected $694.


Services revenue rose 31% to $9.55 billion. Boosting the category were the App Store, Apple Music, AppleCare, Apple Pay, iCloud and other offerings.


Revenue from the company's Other Products segment soared 37% to $3.74 billion. It was helped by healthy sales of wearable devices, including the Apple Watch and AirPods wireless earbuds.


On the flip side, Apple's iPad and Mac businesses were laggards. Revenue from the categories each fell 5% year over year.


Netflix-Like Video Service Hinted
---------------------------------


On a conference call with analysts, Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook hinted at the company's rumored subscription video-on-demand service. Apple has been ordering original TV shows for an internet television network to rival **Netflix** ([NFLX](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=NFLX)) and others, according to media reports.


"We hired two highly respected television executives last year and they have been here now for several months and have been working on a project that we're not really ready to share all the details of it yet," Cook said. "But I couldn't be more excited about what's going on there and we've got great talent in the area that we've sourced from different places and feel really good about what we will eventually offer."


Cook noted that the cord-cutting trend is accelerating as more consumers dump traditional pay TV services for over-the-top internet television.


Apple's video strategy is starting to come into focus, Macquarie analyst Benjamin Schachter said in a note to clients.


"Apple highlighted its video strategy in a much higher-profile way than prior quarters, potentially indicating a wider reveal of its inevitable video OTT service is on the horizon," Schachter said. "Most interestingly, Tim Cook said that he believes that cord-cutting is only going to accelerate, and probably accelerate at a much faster rate than is widely thought. A strong statement from the CEO of the most valuable company in the world."


Guidance Above Wall Street's Views
----------------------------------


For the current quarter, Apple expects to earn about $2.74 a share on sales of $61 billion. That's based on the midpoint of its guidance. Wall Street was modeling $2.65 in earnings per share on sales of $59.57 billion.


The key take-away from Apple's report was the strength in iPhone average selling prices, said Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi. Average selling prices rose 20% year over year in the quarter.


"We worry that average-selling-price increases are likely not sustainable longer term (no precedents exist among consumers electronics companies, including Apple) and that replacement cycles are more likely to lengthen than shorten over time," he said in a note to clients. "Fiscal 2018 will mark the fourth consecutive year in which iPhone units are flat to down, suggesting a mature market."


Apple Stock Price-Target Hikes
------------------------------


At least 19 Wall Street firms raised their price targets on Apple stock following the earnings news. Of those, 14 rate the stock as a buy and five are neutral.


The most bullish of the bunch is Monness Crespi Hardt analyst Brian White. He reiterated his buy rating on Apple stock and upped his price target to 275 from 235.


"We believe Apple's strong software capabilities, expanding services business and unique digital ecosystem at large will increasingly be appreciated by investors, driving Apple toward the $1 trillion market cap milestone," White said in a report. "Moreover, Apple is heading into the seasonally strongest time of the year with a new iPhone cycle on the horizon."


[*Get instant access to more trading ideas, exclusive stock lists and IBD proprietary ratings for only $5.*](https://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=ibddigital-profit&src=A00433A&intcode=IntContentArticle)


**RELATED:**


[Apple Easily Beats June-Quarter Views, Guides Sales Targets Higher](https://www.investors.com/news/technology/click/apple-earnings-fiscal-q3-2018/)




