---
layout: page
title: >-
  The Short Side: Never Sell Short In A Bull Market
date: 2013-01-18 17:52 -0800
author: 
origin_url: https://www.investors.com/research/the-short-side/dangers-of-selling-stocks-short
---




If you want to become good at selling stocks short, it pays to start off on the right foot.


How do you do that? By attempting this perilous form of speculation only in weak markets — preferably of the bear variety.


Consider this to be the platinum rule of short-selling.


If you look at a chart of a major average, such as the S&P 500, that covers decades of time, you'll conclude that the market has a naturally upward bias. Even during the turbulent 2000s, the Nasdaq (see the accompanying monthly chart) spent many months rising.


Reasons for the market's long-term upward slope are sound.


The equities market symbolizes growth in business and the economy. Stocks capture the wealth generated by incredible new technologies, great new products and superb management.


The same holds true today. The IBD 50 is a dynamic collection of companies that are growing faster than the overall economy and raising the quality of life.


The market has gotten off to a decent start in 2013.


"This is not a raging bull by any means. So if we are going to short, we've got to make sure the stock and its industry group are truly bucking the trend. You're facing a much stiffer head wind," said Scott O'Neil, president of MarketSmith.


O'Neil, who also pens a blog for MarketSmith users, noted that the market's action since the Jan. 2 gap-up has been quite impressive. After drifting in a tight range over the past two weeks, the major indexes rallied nearly 1% in higher turnover on Thursday. The S&P 500 hit its highest level since December 2007.


It can be a mistake to sell shares short simply because you think the market has become too hot and prices are irrational. Ultimately, the balance between demand and supply determines what direction the market will go.


Stock and futures trader Jesse Livermore, who won and lost millions over a long career in the early 20th century, made a point of teaching the truth about the market: It's always right.


"Wait and watch," Edwin Lefevre wrote in "Reminiscences of a Stock Operator," which details Livermore's experience. "That is where your tape reading comes in — to enable you to decide as to the proper time for beginning. Much depends upon beginning at exactly the right time. It took me years to realize the importance of this. It also cost me some hundreds of thousands of dollars."


[The Big Picture](http://news.investors.com/investing/big-picture.htm) and Market Pulse help you stay on the right side of the market. You might retort: "Even in the bull market that began in late 2011, there have been some fantastic shorts."


Indeed. **Chipotle Mexican Grill** ([CMG](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=CMG)), **Deckers Outdoor** ([DECK](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=DECK)), **Green Mountain Coffee** ([GMCR](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=GMCR)) and **Fossil** ([FOSL](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=FOSL)) produced tasty gains for those who shorted shares at the right time. All four collapsed following late-stage breakouts and hit resistance at their downward-sloping 10-week moving averages. Yet they were needles in the haystack. Do you really want to risk the tougher odds when most of the market is rising?


Now you know the platinum rule of short selling. Don't forget the golden rule, too. Never let losses — whether you're long or short — go beyond 8%.




