---
layout: page
title: >-
  Take Stock Profits On The Way Up To Compound Gains
date: 2016-06-10 16:33 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-06-10.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Selling at the top is the trader's dream. When it happens, it certainly makes you feel like a genius, but in practice it’s rare.


Usually you either sell too soon and see the stock continue without you, or you sell a little late and give back more profit than you would like. That's just part of trading. But if you capture the bulk of the short-term trend and then move on to the next trade, there are plenty of opportunities for compounding modest profits into great returns.


Since selling at the top is nearly impossible, strategies will focus on selling into strength or selling into weakness. Selling into weakness may use a break below a 5- or 10-day moving average line after the stock has been trending up. Waiting until the end of the day for a decisive close below the moving average gives the stock a little extra room to stage a comeback, in case you’re witnessing a brief pullback intraday.


Selling into strength may be based on profit goals or an observation that a stock looks extended or "climactic" in the short term. These sales can be the toughest to handle emotionally. After all, everything looks great, you’re making money and often fixated on just how much more profit may be in store. Preserving profits isn't quite as exciting.


Methodical profit-taking at 5% or 10%, based on market conditions, can help lock in gains as the stock is advancing. Some stocks may earn a little extra room to run in search of greater gains, but it's important to raise your stop-loss to protect at least some of your profit.


**TAL Education** ([XRS](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=XRS)), which was on IBD's [Swing Trader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) in April, shows the benefits of taking profits on the way up, especially in a choppy market.


The Chinese educator pulled back and started to reverse higher on March 29 **(1)** but then consolidated tightly for over a week. TAL broke out of its short trading range on April 8 **(2)**. The first hour was up strong, with volume tracking to be the highest in a month.


TAL Education held steady for the rest of the day, although volume faded into the close. The buy zone started just above the consolidation high at 50.59, and the stock was put on Swing Trader near the top of its buy range, at 51.56.


On April 13, the stock jumped sharply, hitting its first profit goal of 5% **(3)**. Rather than taking partial profits at this point, the stock was allowed to run as it broke out of a three-week consolidation on the heaviest volume in over a month. The stop was raised to 1% above the 51.56 entry price.


TAL kept going. It had another strong day April 19 **(4)** where it hit its 10% profit goal. Given the solid profit in such a short period of time and its extended appearance, it was removed at 57.58 with a profit of 11.7%. Four days later, the stock closed under its 5-day moving average, which would have yielded a 9% profit. Since then, it has traded up and down, with some days nearly erasing all of April 19's 11.7% gain.


Subscribers and trialists to Swing Trader can view the full details of this real-time trade, as well as the complete history of all trades, in the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) section of Swing Trader. Free trials are available.




