---
layout: page
title: >-
  Cutting Losses Quickly Is Key To Long-Term Stock Profits
date: 2016-05-27 16:40 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-05-27.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





People generally don't like to admit when they're wrong. It's just part of the human condition. But refusing to admit your miscues in the stock market can be costly.


The fact is, even the best traders make a lot of losing trades. But they know better than to argue with the market, and they keep their losses small. With a swing trading approach, this is even more critical because a large loss can wipe away the hard-fought gains of many trades.


Smaller profit goals mean cutting losses even quicker. Rather than an 8% loss-cutting strategy, make a goal of losses averaging less than 2% to 3%. You can use a set percentage from your purchase price as your sell point, but an alternative is to use a natural support area identified on the chart.


For example, an undercut of the low of a breakout day or reversal day suggests that the trade is in danger of failing. Maybe the stock needs to put in more time. But instead of waiting it out, just take the loss and move on to the next trade. Time is a big factor in swing trading.


One of the pitfalls of taking losses quickly is that you will see a number of stocks shake you out and then go up without you. You may start doubting whether cutting losses quickly is a sound strategy. Just remember, the small losses are your insurance policy against a larger devastating loss.


Even with small losses, a string of negative trades can take a big bite out of your portfolio. If you start seeing your batting average decline significantly, a likely culprit is a sideways market without a clear trend. Not much works in these markets. It's best to trade less often and with smaller positions until the market's condition improves.


**LGI Homes** ([LGIH](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=LGIH)) was put on the [Swing Trader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) on April 22 as it broke out of a small consolidation **(1)**. Volume was barely above average but was still at a 10-day high **(2)**. The low of the breakout was set as the maximum loss for the trade. The trade started looking shaky the next day on a downside reversal. Then on the following day, the stock undercut the sell point intraday.


Given the weakness, exiting the trade seemed to be the prudent action. It was moved to the past trades list at 28.02 for a 3% loss **(3)**. That turned out to be 2 cents from the bottom that day. The stock steadily gained 3% from the sell level the rest of the day, ending up slightly above the entry price.


However, in just over a week the stock was back below the sell point and then some. LGI Homes was potentially setting up again **(4)**, but earnings were due, so it was left alone.


Stubbornness could have led to an eventual decline of more than 17% **(5)** from the original entry over a month's period of time. Taking the loss quickly avoided a bigger loss and freed up the cash for other opportunities.


Subscribers and trialists to Swing Trader can view the full details of this real-time trade, as well as the complete history of all trades, in the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) section of Swing Trader. Free [trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.




