---
layout: page
title: >-
  Buying Early But Buying Smart With Stock Reversals
date: 2016-05-24 17:00 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-05-24.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Buying at the bottom sounds simple, logical and profitable. But most traders learn it's risky and difficult. With a weak stock, there's no telling how far down it can go, hence the Wall Street adage, "don't try to catch a falling knife."


Short-term reversals in the [Swing Trader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product don't focus on catching the bottom, nor do they consider weak stocks. Instead, the reversal offers an opportunity to buy a stock demonstrating strength after pulling back in an overall uptrend. Rather than wait for the stock to break out from an earlier point of resistance, the reversal shows the short-term trend has potentially changed and often coincides with a bounce off a moving average line.


This buying strategy is especially useful in a market where the rallies are short. A few percentage points earlier than the breakout can make a big difference in your win rate and average gains.


The typical reversal has a spread between the high and low that is wider than most of the recent activity. The reversal can start on a down day but show powerful support by closing in the upper part of the trading range. For these "red reversals," the buy signal flashes on a break above the high of the reversal day to confirm the support and strength. Volume ticking up, compared to recent activity, helps as well.


For days that reverse and close positive, the stock should still be in the upper part of the range. But the buy may be made on the reversal itself, rather than waiting for the previous day's high to be surpassed.


**Nvidia**  ([NVDA](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=NVDA)) saw a reversal on March 10 as it formed a cup with handle in a long-term uptrend (not shown on this chart). Its Relative Price Strength Rating was 96, meaning its price performance was better than 96% of the stocks in IBD's database for the past year. In other words, this was not a beaten-down stock trying to find a bottom.


The day of the reversal was the sixth consecutive down day, but the stock had a wider trading range than recent activity and closed in the top half of the range **(1)** with a five-day high in volume **(2)**. The next day Nvidia surpassed the high of the reversal day, confirming the support, and the trade was put on the Swing Trader product at the end of the day.


That started a move well contained by the five-day moving average without a single close below the line until April 6 **(3)**. Nvidia had already reached its 10% profit goal and was on its 18th day on the list. So, although it wasn't a decisive close below the five-day moving average, it was removed with an 11% profit.


Subscribers and trialists to Swing Trader can view the full details of this real-time trade, as well as the complete history of all trades, in the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) section of Swing Trader. Click [here](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) for a free two-week trial.




