---
layout: page
title: >-
  What Tight Action Reveals About A Stock's Potential
date: 2016-08-12 16:55 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-08-12.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





If you're a trader who likes action and excitement, tight trading can be a real snooze fest. But it's what can happen afterward that should garner your attention.


Take the case when you have a strong move up followed by tight action. That shows a stock that is unwilling to give up its gains. With a flurry of buying, you would normally expect some selling to come in as traders take their profits. If the stock trades tightly instead, it could be that any selling is getting absorbed by traders wanting more shares. The equilibrium between supply and demand is displayed with little price movement between closes, as well as narrow ranges between many of the daily highs and lows.


On a weekly chart, the trading would show up as three-weeks-tight patterns or flat bases. But with the shorter time frame of a swing trading mentality, days will be used rather than weeks.


And since shorter-term moving averages are being used, like the 5- or 10-day line, you will often see these lines run up to meet the price. This can help you later by reducing your drawdown if the trade goes against you. A close below the moving average will get you out of the trade with little damage to your portfolio.


Now that the setup is in place, buyers need to make their move. A breakout indicates that the selling has dried up and the buying pressure is now pushing the stock out of its consolidation. It's preferred for the volume on the price jump to be high, relative to the tight area, confirming the intensity behind the price move.


**Silver Wheaton** ([SLW](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=SLW)) was put on [IBD's SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product for its tight action, but this wasn't a stock that fit the regular mold. It was showing tight action at the end of June, but by the time it started breaking out of its tight formation **(1)** with a confirming increase in volume **(2)**, the market was in turmoil from the reaction to the Brexit vote. Once the market started showing signs of recovery with a positive reversal on June 28, the stock was put on SwingTrader at 22.29 as it broke out to new highs **(3)**.


There wasn't volume on the day, and it couldn't hold its new high, actually turning negative by the close. That would have been enough to test the mettle of most traders. However, the prior two days came on the heaviest volume in over a month, and the negative close gave little ground from the powerful price move of the prior two days. The fact the stock had actually gotten tighter than the prior two consolidations was also favorable.


Half profits were taken at 5% **(4)** and then the remainder was closed out on July 1 when the stock hit its 10% profit goal **(5)**. The average exit price was 24 giving a 7.7% gain over four days.


For more historical trades from SwingTrader, check out the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) tab available to subscribers and trialists. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) of the product are available.




