---
layout: page
title: >-
  Moving Averages Can Help Lock In Stock Profits
date: 2016-06-24 17:55 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-06-24.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Selling is an emotionally charged decision, even when you have profits. It's natural to think of selling when a stock shows weakness, but there are many "what ifs" that can taunt you.


If you sell, you fear the stock may turn right around to make gains without you. If you don't sell, you risk the possibility of losing even more profits or having the trade go negative. Using a short-term moving average line as a sell rule allows for an objective and consistent strategy to handle the decision unemotionally.


Since the 5-day average hugs the price tightly, it is usually in your best interest to wait for a decisive close below the line before taking action. If the stock punctures the line intraday but shows signs of support by the end of the day, the stock can be kept. That show of support suggests the stock was able to overcome selling pressure. Even if the close is just slightly below it, the stock may still be kept, especially if it made progress from its lows.


**Electronic Arts** ([EA](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=EA)) was a winning trade from [IBD's SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product. The stock reversed on May 23 and closed in the middle of its range for the day **(1)**. The following day Electronic Arts surpassed the high of the reversal, and it was put on as a current trade at 74.20. Shares finished strongly and closed above the 5-day moving average line, allowing it to be used as a future sell signal.


On May 26, EA fell below the 5-day line intraday but rallied back above it by the close, avoiding the sell signal **(2)**. The stock actually closed below the line **(3)** on June 3 and June 6. In both cases, shares rallied from their lows, closed near the upper quartile of the day's trading range, within 0.1% of the 5-day line. Lacking the decisive close below the line justified giving the stock a little more room.


That decision was rewarded with a 2% jump the following day, and half profits were taken at 77.63 **(4)**. That sell ended up being within 1% of a near-term top, and Electronic Arts traded lower for most of the day after that.


The following day, the weakness continued to worsen throughout the session. The stock did close below the 5-day line by almost half a percent **(5)**. The remaining shares were sold at 76.10 a couple of hours before the market close. That put the average price of the sells at 76.87 for a 3.6% profit.


Subscribers and trialists to SwingTrader can view the full details of this real-time trade, as well as the complete history of all trades, in the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) section of SwingTrader. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.




