---
layout: page
title: >-
  Using The Market As Your Guide For Stock Positions
date: 2016-07-01 17:12 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-07-01.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Market environments are not all created equal.


You may capture the bulk of your profits from just a few months in a year. The same goes for your losses. We can't change what the market does, but we can change how we react to it.


Two levers at your disposal are how many trades you put on and the size of your positions. Larger positions and more trading only make sense if you are in a higher-return and lower-risk environment most common in a trending market. When a market is in a sideways trend, however, it's time for caution. Fewer trades and smaller positions protect your portfolio from getting whittled away needlessly.


With swing trading's shorter time frame, the 10-day moving average is often a good gauge of the market's near-term trend. When the Nasdaq or S&P 500 is starting an uptrend, climbing above the 10-day line is an early indicator of an uptrend. As the line starts trending higher, you can ramp up your exposure with additional and larger trades. Eventually, longer-term moving averages confirm the strength of the trend.


Moving averages aren't your only indicator. It's also critical to analyze price and volume action of the indexes and the feedback that the market offers through your portfolio's batting average.


Subscribers and trialists to [IBD's SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product can view the past trades of SwingTrader and sort by Entry Date or Exit Date columns. The winning trades are in green while losses are in red, making it easy to visually see changes in the batting average. SwingTrader also offers three market trend arrows on the current trades page that assess the current trend of the market: Uptrend, Downtrend or Sideways.


Real time beta-testing trades started for the product during the middle of an uptrend **(1)**. The Nasdaq composite was down to the 10-day line, closing below it for one day and then recovering. The first trades swiftly became profitable.


The market hit a speed bump at the beginning of April **(2)**. Strong gains were wiped out in the next day or two as the Nasdaq started vacillating above and below the 10-day line. The price and volume action along with a string of losing trades signaled caution.


After a gap up **(3)**, the index got sluggish again and the batting average was weighed down by losses until April 28 **(4)**. At this point, the market action arrow on SwingTrader switched to Downtrend for the first time.


Downtrends can be profitable too. This short-term downtrend delivered gains on three short plays and a defensive play in gold.


[Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) to SwingTrader are available which provide access to the full list of [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past).


 




