---
layout: page
title: >-
  Industry-Group Moves Reveal Stock Opportunities
date: 2016-07-08 16:26 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-07-08.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Finding a gold nugget is a lot easier if you search around a rich lode. In the same way, you're more likely to strike a winning trade if you focus on a strong industry group.


Identifying industry trends not only helps narrow down where you are looking, but also exposes you to more potential ideas within a group. Group action that should get your attention includes heavier volume among a number of stocks in a particular group, a steep ascent among IBD's 197 industry rankings, or a lot of bullish technical setups in a group or sector.


**Freeport-McMoRan** ([FCX](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=FCX)) knows a little about finding gold. It belongs to IBD's industry group of metal ore miners. The group suffered from a five-year downtrend that saw a drop of 90% for the group's index value. At the end of April, it was showing signs of a rebound: Mining was the No. 1 sector of IBD's 33 sectors. The metal ores group had moved from No. 162, out of IBD's 197 groups, all the way to No. 36, while the No. 1 group at the time was a related group: miners of gold, silver and gems.


It was in this environment that Freeport became one of the first trades when IBD's [SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product launched. The stock had climbed back above its 200-day moving average and was pulling back. It was added as a current trade at 11.48 on April 26 as it moved up strongly on a reversal after reporting earnings **(1)**. The next day the stock followed-through on the reversal and was quickly up to its first 5% profit target, where half-profits were taken at 12.05 **(2)**. The market was showing short-term topping action at the time, so booking partial profits at 5% was appropriate. It also hit the 10% profit target on the same day but was given more room to run given its strength.


The following day, the strength continued in the stock early in the session but was looking weaker near the close **(3)**. With the market also weakening, the remaining shares were sold at 12.81. The average exit price was 12.43 for a gain of 8.28% on the trade. The next day was tough to watch as the stock went up another 10%, but over the next two days it dropped sharply back and has barely traded above 12 since then. It's always nice in theory to sell right at the top, but in practice it's much tougher to do.


Subscribers and trialists to SwingTrader can view the full details of this real-time trade, as well as the complete history of trades, in the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) section of SwingTrader. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.




