---
layout: page
title: >-
  Short-Term Stock Breakout Strategies Have Familiar Rules
date: 2016-05-13 17:43 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-05-13.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Just because swing-trading strategies use a shorter time frame doesn't mean you have to learn a new set of chart-reading skills.


Take breakouts from consolidations. Prior uptrends are a must. Sideways action that resists giving up much ground is preferred. High Relative Strength Ratings are a key statistic for limiting your universe to the best prospects. And volume gives you confirmation that institutions are accumulating shares.


Sound familiar? These are all characteristics shared by the most profitable stocks of each market cycle in the last century. The twist added by swing trading is the time frame.


Rather than consolidations that are typically five to seven weeks at a minimum, you might be looking at half that time, or even less. In strong trending markets the 10-day moving average will guide many trades; you may find consolidations gravitate around that time frame as well. But there is added flexibility depending on the market environment. Some consolidations may last a few weeks while others can be just a few days.


The flexibility in looking at shorter time frames comes from lowered profit goals. A prior uptrend of 30% or more needs the longer time frame of a sound base structure before continuing for similar sized gains or better. But if you are looking for a gain of 5% to 10%, the requirements are much less.


By the same token, volume characteristics of a breakout also can have a shortened time frame. Rather than the 50-day moving average of volume as your threshold for heavy turnover, look to the volume of the shorter consolidation area for clues. If the breakout volume can surpass the recent activity, that can be a sufficient confirmation of strength.


**Ctrip.com**  ([CTRP](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=CTRP)) is a good example from the [Swing Trader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product. The stock was added on April 11 from a 13-day consolidation **(1)**. The volume on the breakout was at 5.3 million, only 7% above average, but it was the highest volume of the previous 12 days **(2)**. Over the next three days, the stock quickly gained more than 6%. It was removed three days off its high on April 19 as it closed below its 5-day moving average **(3)**. The profit on the trade, from entry and exit on Swing Trader, was 5.3% in seven trading days.


Subscribers and trialists to Swing Trader can view the full details of this real-time trade, as well as the complete history of all trades, in the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) section of Swing Trader. Click [here](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) for a free two-week trial.




