---
layout: page
title: >-
  One Thing Swing Traders Need To Look For Beyond The Price
date: 2016-08-05 15:44 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-08-05.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Have you ever been watching a movie and thought about how changes in volume are used to enhance feelings?


The music may go from a whisper, then crescendo during a particularly tense scene. Or a sudden scream in the quiet night can make the audience jump in their seats during a horror movie. The changes in volume complement what you are seeing visually on the screen.


Tracking volume (the amount of shares traded) in stocks gives you insight into the intensity of investors' feelings.


To make any sense of volume, it has to be compared to something. The comparison is usually the 50-day moving average of volume, which is appropriate for longer holding times. A 40% to 50% increase or more on any given day, relative to that line, is considered significant.


However, since swing trading uses shorter time frames, more recent action becomes the area of focus. Volume coming in heavier compared to the last 5 to 10 days is sufficient to suggest enough passion for the stock.


A stock building in volume while increasing in price is revealing a change in the intensity of demand. A sudden drop with a huge volume spike, relative to recent volume, can show a dramatic change in character.


Take **U.S. Concrete**  ([USCR](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=USCR)), one of the winners on [IBD's SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product earlier this year. The stock was consolidating for a couple weeks when it was put on as a potential trade on April 13 **(1),** ahead of its breakout.


It was noted that in addition to breaking above a recent high of 63.67, volume tracking higher than 400,000 shares for the day would be preferred. While that level was below the 50-day average of volume, it would have been the heaviest volume since the consolidation started 10 days prior. The scene was set.


The next day **(2)** the stock triggered a buy alert, and volume came in at 440,000 shares by the end of the day **(3)**. While it was only 25% above its 50-day average volume, getting above the recent levels should have been enough to get the audience's attention, especially since volume was building over the prior two days. Cue the dramatic music.


U.S. Concrete held its 5-day moving average line for the next eight days, and half profits were taken at 67.30 when it reached its 5% profit goal **(4)**. The following day, the stock dropped sharply, and the remaining shares were removed at 66.40 when it looked like it would close below its 5-day moving average line **(5)**. The average exit price was 66.85, and the stock rode into the sunset with a 4.4% gain.


Full details of this real-time trade, as well as the complete history of all trades, are posted in the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) section of SwingTrader. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.




