---
layout: page
title: >-
  How To Snag Big Profits From Short-Term Swing Trading
date: 2016-07-29 16:15 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-07-29.jpg
author: CHRIS GESSEL
---





As the aging bull market lurches into its eighth year, swing trading is all about grabbing gains when you have them.


But in more robust markets, you don't have to settle for a 5% or 10% profit. Like any good trading strategy, swing trading adapts to the market environment.


Take 2014. The S&P 500 was in a clear uptrend, punctuated by only one correction deep enough to pierce its 200-day moving average.


The best part of that year? Scores of initial public offerings stormed the market, showering investors with fresh trading opportunities and plenty of profits. More than 300 stocks made their debuts, the most since 2000.


Midway through that bonanza, **GoPro** ([GPRO](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=GPRO)) made a splash worthy of its wearable digital cameras.


The stock came public at 24 a share and promptly gapped up to gain 31% on its first trading day **(1)**. It soon settled into its first consolidation. After one false start, it traded exceptionally tight for two weeks.


On Aug. 18, GoPro broke out from that quiet respite in the heaviest volume in nine days **(2)**. Game on.


Over the next month, the stock touched its 5-day moving average a few times but never seriously breached it.


GoPro showed some fatigue on Sept. 15 as it barely closed below the 5-day line after reversing from a new high. That steep ascent gave traders a 61% gain **(3)**.


Time to book the profit?


In the current market it would be hard to resist. After all, for more than a year when a stock closes below the 5-day line it's almost guaranteed to cut through the 10-day moving average within a few trading sessions, although that's starting to change. (Take a free trial of [IBD's SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) to see these moving averages in action.)


But in more vigorous bull markets, the 10-day can support stocks for surprisingly large profits.


Given the strength of GoPro, IPOs and the general market at that time, the 10-day traced a reasonable line in the sand.


The next three days unfolded normally. Volume declined as the stock held above the 10-day average. Sept. 19 started off like a cliff dive, as GoPro fell nearly 4% below the line before closing up for the day **(4)**.


The stock shot higher for more than a week before running into any resistance. By then you could find plenty of reasons to sell. One clear signal? On Oct. 9, GoPro closed 1% below its 10-day average, good for a 113% swing trade **(5)**.


It was also a timely long-term sell signal. GoPro tumbled more than 90% from its peak, hitting bottom just two months ago.




