---
layout: page
title: >-
  When The Lowest Price Might Not Be The Best Price
date: 2016-06-17 17:02 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-06-17.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





You rarely hear swing traders talk about patience. Usually it's get in, get out with a modest profit, repeat.


But when it comes to buying, waiting a short while can increase your chances of success, especially at the start of the trading day. The temptation to buy as soon as a stock hits a specific price neglects two important elements: volume confirmation and whether the price move shows stamina.


Figuring out how volume will turn out at the end of the day isn't easy when looking at early trading. Heavier volume in early and late trading hours bookend quieter activity in the middle of the day. Act too quickly and you run the risk of finding volume that looked strong in the first hour turn out to be mediocre by the end of the day.


As for price action, the way a stock hits its highs on an intraday chart can be a good indicator of whether it can keep hitting new highs in a sustained manner. A stock that only shows momentary trading at new highs before getting turned away demonstrates a small appetite for the stock at the higher price levels.


Take **Amazon.com** ([AMZN](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=AMZN)), an idea put on IBD's [Swing Trader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product in April. The stock made a high of 603.24 on March 30 before consolidating in a handle **(1)**. On April 11, the stock crossed above the high midday, but the way it got there wasn't convincing **(2)**. After a strong open in the first hour, the stock drifted down over the next two hours. When it finally challenged the March 30 buy point, it quickly turned back down within minutes.


Waiting just an hour could have prevented the purchase of a stock that ended more than 1% below its buy point and at the lows of the day **(2).** That hour delay also made it clear that volume was lacking. Not the boost of confidence and power you would like to see in a breakout. That type of action often leads to more consolidation time and should be avoided when possible.


The following day didn't show much activity, but on April 13 **(3)** Amazon gapped up and was put on Swing Trader with an entry price of 613.56. Volume was much stronger and confirmed the strength of the price move. The price made new highs and held above previous highs. Although it was 10 points higher, or 1.7%, the confirmation of strength raised the odds of success while avoiding a loss or letting money sit in an idle stock.


Subscribers and trialists to Swing Trader can view the full details of this real-time trade, as well as the complete history of all trades, in the [Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past) section of Swing Trader. [Free trials are available.](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH)




