---
layout: page
title: >-
  How To Avoid Breakout Traps And Painful Reversals
date: 2016-09-23 17:59 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-09-23.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Trading stocks is filled with traps. Emotional lures are constantly conflicting with measured thinking. In a fast-moving market, it's easy to rely more on the former rather than the latter.


Take a recent Sept. 6 [**breakout**](http://education.investors.com/lesson.aspx?id=736311&sourceid=735787) attempt in **Icon** ([ICLR](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=ICLR)).  The stock was in a five-week consolidation and suddenly jumped more than 1% in the first hour of trade **(1)**, clearing an area of resistance it had been hitting around 77. The powerful move would have been enough to get the attention of any technician. But a purchase would have quickly turned into a loss as the breakout failed. The next hour saw a reversal of all the gains and things worsened from there. By the close, a 1.7% gain turned into a 2.6% loss **(2)**.


Say a bunch of orders come in on the buy side. The price will jump to reflect that demand. But once those orders are filled, if the demand evaporates, market makers will keep lowering the price until they can find buyers again. Even worse, the price drop can spook current holders and start a wave of sell orders.


What can you do to avoid this? First and foremost: patience. Sometimes waiting an hour indicates whether the buying was a temporary surge or if there was at least enough demand at the higher price point to keep the stock there. The risk of course is that the stock moves so much while you wait that it gets extended.


However, a big move is a sign of strength and raises the probability of a successful trade. The downside? You could be facing a stop loss much larger than the prudent 2% to 3%. The solution? Reduce your position size to offset the larger stop loss so that you're risking the same number of dollars on the trade.


Which brings up a second issue in our Icon example. The stock was already getting extended from a swing trader's perspective, having made gains the previous seven days. Granted, many of the gains were small, but you can normally expect some type of short-term pullback when you get so many days up in a row. Since the expectation is to be in the trade for just a week or two in a swing trading style, sitting through a pullback wastes valuable time and ties up money that could be available for other trades.


Another option, especially when you have a borderline case, is waiting until the end of the trading day. Ideally, the stock should close high in its range with a confirming load of volume.


IBD's newest product [**SwingTrader**](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) gives subscribers stock ideas for their own swing trading. [**Free trials**](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.


**RELATED:**


**[When The Lowest Price Might Not Be The Best Price](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/when-the-lowest-price-might-not-be-the-best-price/)**


**[Patience Before Pouncing Pays Off](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/patience-before-pouncing-pays-off/)**


 




