---
layout: page
title: >-
  Swing Trading Can Deliver Profits In Choppy Stock Market
date: 2016-04-29 17:13 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-04-29.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





The market has challenged investors in recent years as short rallies made it tough to build meaningful profits in your stock positions. And shallow corrections made it easy to get shaken out.  

But some investors found success by taking smaller gains and cutting losses quicker. That led to the introduction of this column and a new product: SwingTrader.


Let’s start with the basics of a swing trading strategy. The goal is not to hit a home run. If you can just get on first base, that’s a win. Rather than targeting 20% to 25% profits for most of your stocks, the profit goal is a more modest 10%, even just 5% in tougher markets.


Those types of gains might not seem to be the life-changing rewards typically sought in the stock market. After all, how can you ever expect to score a huge winning stock if all you buy are bunts? This is where the time factor comes in.


The swing trader’s focus isn’t on gains developing over weeks or months; the average length of a trade is more like five to 10 days. You put a string of base hits together and you will score just by advancing your runners. If you are happy with a 20% gain over a month or more, 5% to 10% gains every week or two can add up to significant profits.


Of course, you still have to factor in losses. Progress on smaller gains can only be achieved if losses are kept small. Rather than the normal 7% to 8% stop loss, take losses quicker at a maximum of 2% to 3%. This will keep you at a 3-to-1 profit-to-loss ratio, a sound portfolio management rule for success. It’s a critical component of the whole system since an outsized loss can wipe away a lot of progress made with smaller gains.


Swing trading can still deliver larger gains on individual trades. A stock may exhibit enough initial strength that it can be held for a bigger gain, or partial profits can be taken while giving the remaining position room to run.


**Edwards Lifesciences** ([EW](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=EW)) scored an outsized gain for SwingTrader during beta performance. The stock broke out of a short consolidation on April 1 (1). Volume was above average and the highest in nearly two months (2). A positive clinical trial led to a 16% move the next day. The stop was immediately raised to 10% above the buy price to protect the profit. Another strategy would have been to book partial profits at that point.


The stock was removed on April 19, on a close below the 10-day moving average, with a gain of 18% (3).




