---
layout: page
title: >-
  How To Navigate A Sideways Market
date: 2016-08-26 17:55 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-08-26.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





There is money to be made in both uptrends and downtrends. A sideways market, however, is another story.


Your time frame can make a big difference in how you play the market trend. With the shorter time frame of a swing trading style, what might be a range-bound, sideways market for a longer-term investor, could provide plenty of opportunities for profits in the short run. In fact, it was because of these types of environments that the **[IBD SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH)** product was launched.


But the sideways trend also poses unique challenges for the shorter time frame. With a market making little or no progress, stocks tend to follow suit. Even 5% gains may be elusive as stocks may consolidate along with the market. That leaves you with the risk of a downside move increasing as trades stay on longer, while at the same time reward size diminishes. That's not how you want your risk-reward ratio to play out. The good news is that the change in trend can usually be recognized with early warning signs, either by stalling action on the chart or a lack of proper setups in stocks.


When the change happens, a fine balance between engagement and action is required. With less potential for profit, trading should diminish in both size and frequency. At the same time, it is still important to stay engaged with market action. A change in trend can happen quickly and if you aren't paying attention you could miss out on early opportunities and some of the best setups. [**Reversals**](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/buying-early-but-buying-smart-with-stock-reversals/) in particular come early in market turns.


The last few months illustrate important contrasts in market opportunities. The market action on SwingTrader went to Sideways trend on June 10 as the Nasdaq composite closed below its 10-day moving average **(1),** a clear technical indicator. In the subsequent 13 trading days, only seven trades were put on the list. Four were winners, with only one of those achieving a gain over 3%. The other three saw losses. Trading smaller position sizes helped curb a larger drawdown than necessary.


Other than a quick fake out before the Brexit vote **(2)**, the sideways trend remained and left few trades on when the two-day rout in stocks happened after the vote. But early indicators quickly led to trades getting put on again June 28 **(3)**and by June 30 **(4),** the market was back in an uptrend**.**Those early trades all saw gains averaging 6.7% and over the next 16 trading days, 11 of 13 trades had gains, nearly half were over 4%.


While the market continued making gains, the velocity started to slow down and was noted in market action commentary. It resulted in a brief switch to sideways trend **(5)** on Aug. 2 but another quick reversal as the market made new highs **(6)**. A degree of caution remained, however, due to technical indicators and a lack of proper setups. Finally, the market succumbed to a sideways trend again this week **(7)** on a close below the 10-day moving average. The early warning signs have kept the list trim to avoid losses in the current environment.


Details on how SwingTrader navigated recent market action can be viewed in the **[Past Trades](https://swingtrader.investors.com/#/past)** section available to subscribers and trialists. [**Free trials**](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.


**Related:**


**[What A Batting Average Tells You About The Market](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/what-a-batting-average-tells-you-about-the-market/)**


**[Using The Market As Your Guide For Stock Positions](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/using-the-market-as-your-guide-for-stock-positions/)**




