---
layout: page
title: >-
  Day Trading Vs. Swing Trading Comes Down To Time
date: 2016-10-07 15:15 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2016-10-07.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





A big question for those venturing into swing trading is how is it different from day trading? A few distinctions have a common theme: time.


First, the time frames for holding a trade are different. Day traders are in an out of trades within minutes or hours. They are the 100-meter dash sprinters of the trading world. Swing trading is generally over days or weeks, so they are more like the 800-meter runners.


Day traders' shorter time frame means they don't generally hold positions overnight. As a result, they avoid the risk of gaps from news announcements coming in after hours and causing a big move against them. Whether a macroeconomic news item or stock related news, the swing trader does have to be wary that a stock could open significantly different from how it closed the day before. News announcements still come out during the day, which can significantly move stocks, but the day trader is betting on their constant monitoring and quick action to put them a step ahead of the other players.


But there is an added risk with the shorter time frame. A wide spread between the bid and the ask and commissions can eat too large a portion of your profits. Swing traders can struggle with this too, but the effect is amplified for the day trader. You can easily find yourself doing all the work and the market makers and brokers are reaping the benefits.


To offset this, day traders are often offered the "opportunity" to leverage their portfolios with more margin, four times the buying power rather than double. Taking larger leveraged positions can increase percentage gains to offset costs. The problem is that no one is right all the time. A lack of focus, discipline, or just plain bad luck can lead to a trade that goes against you in a big way. A bad trade, or string of bad trades, can blow up your account, where the loss to the portfolio is so great the chances of recovery are slim. For a swing trader, a string of losses or a big loss can still have a dramatic effect, but the lower leverage reduces the likelihood that the results wipe out your portfolio.


That leads to another time related difference: the time commitment. Proper day trading requires focus and attention on numerous positions and constantly looking for new potential opportunities throughout the day to replace exited positions. That means it isn't a side job; day trading is your only job.


The extra time commitment of day trading comes with its own risk. Not having a steady paycheck makes all your income reliant on your trading success. That can add an extra level of stress and emotions to your trading. More emotions in trading lead to poor decisions.


A swing trading style, by contrast, may have a few transactions some days and nothing on others. Positions can be checked periodically or handled with alerts when critical price points are reached rather than the need for constant monitoring.


Since IBD launched its [SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) product in beta on March 10, there have been 147 trades put on over the last 148 days. That's an average of just under one position a day. The average holding time was 5.2 days per position. Both those factors mean less of a time commitment compared to day trading. IBD's SwingTrader product also saves you time by doing some of the leg work for you, sending alerts and providing research. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.


**RELATED:**


[Swing Trading Strategies And Tips](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/)


[How To Trade: Margin Accounts Amplify Gains, Losses](https://www.investors.com/how-to-invest/investors-corner/invest-with-margin-wisely-in-stock-market/)


[Gaps Can Be Frightening But Also Profitable](https://www.investors.com/how-to-invest/investors-corner/stocks-gapping-up-from-a-base/)


 




