---
layout: page
title: >-
  Watching From The Sidelines Is Best In Sideways Markets
date: 2017-06-30 17:12 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2017-06-30.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Taking action is a respected virtue. Action heroes, active lifestyles and active investors are all admired. But sometimes sitting on the sidelines is the best course of action to take with [swing trades](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/), especially in a sideways market.


Before June, the Nasdaq composite was in an overall uptrend for the year, staying above its 50-day moving average line with only a brief close below it on April 13 (1). That breach was caused not just by a sharp drop on March 21 (not shown on chart) but also by nearly a month of sideways action. Not an easy time to make money.


The index also saw a quick drop on May 17 as it got clipped more than 2.5% in one day (2), the only move of the year greater than 2%. However, in that case the index quickly bounced back over the next six days and got right back into new high territory (3).


Contrast that action with where we are today. The Nasdaq dropped 1.8% on June 9 (4) the third worst loss of the year. But it's the recovery, or lack of, that has really increased the need for caution.


Even while the S&P 500 hit new highs on June 19, the Nasdaq still hadn't recovered even half its losses. By June 29, both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq composite were back at their 50-day lines with Nasdaq closing below the line for the second time this year (5).


Looking at the time period as a whole, more time has been spent below the 10-day line than above it. In these conditions, it becomes prudent to wait for the market to pick a direction. Sure, there have been a few stocks making good moves during this time, but the overall risks often outweigh the rewards.


So, what actions should you take as a swing trader? Trading less should be the top priority. Even small losses can cause a big hit to your portfolio if you take enough of them. If you insist on trading, reduce your position size. Having more money parked on the sidelines and a few smaller trades acting as probes keeps you engaged. It also gives you quick feedback on when the trading environment gets better.


Staying on the sidelines isn't just about protecting your portfolio. You are also protecting your trading psychology. Letting a sideways market chop you up can make you more timid and reluctant to enter when the market does turn. Opportunities lost by being gun shy can be even more costly than the losses to your portfolio. Resting on the sidelines puts you in a position to perform at your best when you get back in the game.


More details on short-term market action are accessible to subscribers and trialists to IBD's SwingTrader. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.


**RELATED:**


[How To Navigate A Sideways Market](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/how-to-navigate-a-sideways-market/)


[Swing Trading Strategies And Lessons](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/)


 




