---
layout: page
title: >-
  Sector Rotation Offers Opportunities With Reversals
date: 2017-06-23 12:43 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2017-06-23.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





[Swing trades](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/) can be a good way to stay in phase with sector rotation. Taking profits quickly can help avoid corrections in stocks going out of favor. At the same time, capital is freed up to take advantage of other stocks showing renewed strength.


Stock reversals are of particular interest when sector rotation is underway. As a reminder, we aren't trying to catch stocks at their bottoms or at their weakest. We wait for a sign of strength that the trend has changed and the weakness is potentially over.


What does a reversal look like? By definition, you need some type of trend in place to reverse from. In the case of a buy signal, when a downtrend is in place, you will see a final test of the lows. When the stock surges, closing high in the range, it shows an attempt to change the trend. Sufficient strength can be the start of a new move at least in the short term, especially when accompanied with volume.


The downtrend itself can occur in a couple ways. A short-term downtrend shows a pullback that is part of a larger overall uptrend. If a long-term downtrend is in place, there is usually a shift within the industry that drives the flood of buying and causes the reversal. In that case, you want to see a break of a long-term trend line or a bottoming base to become the foundation from which the stock launches itself.


Take **Freeport-McMoRan** ([FCX](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=FCX)) from last year. The stock was down more than 90% at its lows in January 2016 — a huge drop but in line with its industry group. From those lows it went up more than 200% by March, getting back above its 40-week moving average line and breaking its 18-month downtrend. That might seem too far and too quick to be on anyone's radar. But that was the level of strength needed to overcome the severity of its decline.


After the big gain, it saw a short-term pullback and was added to IBD's [SwingTrader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) on April 26 after reporting earnings **(1)**. It quickly scored its first profit target of 5% the next day, and half profits were taken **(2)**. A profit goal of 10% was reached later that same day and the decision was made to see if it could be held for bigger gains. While it saw bigger gains the following day, the reversal from the highs **(3)** — the flip side of what we've been talking about — was enough to add caution. The stock was removed for an average gain of 8.3%. Not bad for a couple days and part of an even larger move among the mining sector.


As with any trade, things might not work out the way we would like. Rather than a new move up, the reversal could just be temporary strength before a bigger move down. That's where a stop loss comes in. Setting it at the low of the reversal day protects us when we're wrong and lets us know unequivocally that the reversal has failed.


Current ideas as well as past trades of IBD's SwingTrader are available to subscribers and trialists. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.


**RELATED:**


[Buying Early But Buying Smart With Stock Reversals](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/buying-early-but-buying-smart-with-stock-reversals/)


[Swing Trading Strategies And Lessons](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/)


 




