---
layout: page
title: >-
  Has The Market Gotten Past The Speed Bumps?
date: 2017-04-21 15:02 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2017-04-21.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





In some market environments profits come easy, while others are less forgiving. Successful [swing trading](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/) not only relies on superior stock selection but also capitalizing on better markets with more aggression and scaling back when the potential is less favorable.


To get a sense of where the market is now, you have to start with the context of where it's been. After a strong postelection rally, little progress has been made since March 1 when the Nasdaq composite first crossed above the 5900 level **(1)**. This day also coincided with the last new highs on the S&P 500, Dow Jones industrial average, and Russell 2000.


Following March 1, all the indexes backed away from their highs. After the Nasdaq got stuck below its 10-day moving average line for a few days, the Market Action on IBD's [Swing Trader](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) was downgraded to a Sideways Trend **(2)**. It remained at that status even as the index got to new high ground. The reason? Churning action as it crossed the 5900 level **(3)**. Churning is when little progress gets made even with volume ramping up **(4)**. It's like spinning your wheels in a car and not going anywhere.


The extra caution level helped avoid the damaging action of March 21 when the index reached new highs then dropped and undercut the lows of the entire prior month **(5)**. The Nasdaq recovered to new high ground again, but still the Market Action wasn't put back to Uptrend. The other major indexes were making lower highs and the Nasdaq itself, while clearly the leader, kept getting turned back from new highs by the end of the day. It eventually had another negative reversal **(6)**. Similar to March 21, new highs were made early and then the lows of the prior week were undercut.


The weakness continued and eventually led to the first breach of the 50-day moving average line of the year **(7)** but subsequently bounced back to challenge new high territory again.


So where do we go from here? While the Market Action hasn't switched to Uptrend, cautious optimism may be in order.


In individual stocks, the strongest volume and biggest moves were first seen in more of the beaten down names but that is starting to shift. However, while the number of setups has increased, volume has still been tepid in many of the breakouts.


For the market itself, the largest question is whether the Nasdaq will balk as it approaches new high territory again. And, if it does move past prior resistance, how far it can run? The most the Nasdaq has been off its highs during this weakness was 2.4%. The index just doesn't have much of a decline to bounce back from and that can pose a problem for future progress. The best opportunities usually set up during corrections with depth, time or both. Lacking those elements tends to lessen the opportunities.


Finally, the news cycle has been taking its toll. Between global elections and unrest, and domestic policy implementation questions, the market has had a lot of headlines to digest, with most of the issues unresolved as of now.


That being said, the short-term nature of swing trading requires constant flexibility and can mitigate risks by being nimble. Whatever your opinion of the market is — positive, negative, or neutral — be prepared to change it if evidence suggests your opinion is wrong. That will keep you at the right speed no matter what obstacles lay in the road ahead.


More details on current market action are available to subscribers and trialists to SwingTrader. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.


**RELATED:**


[Swing Trading Strategies And Lessons](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/)


[Using The Market As Your Guide For Stock Positions](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/using-the-market-as-your-guide-for-stock-positions/)


[What Does The Road Ahead Look Like For Swing Traders?](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/what-does-the-road-look-like-ahead-for-swing-traders/)


 




