---
layout: page
title: >-
  This Adage Rings True For Sideways Markets
date: 2017-08-18 13:29 -0700
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2017-08-18.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





If you are having trouble making progress in your portfolio this summer, you aren't alone. Sideways markets are notoriously difficult to navigate even with the extra nimbleness of [swing trading](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/). A strategy to consider is the centuries-old maxim, in various forms, "a penny spared is twice got."


Interpret this in your swing trades as a warning to diligently guard against unnecessary losses. When the market is in a sideways trend, trading becomes a lower-probability venture. Trading less and with smaller position sizes protects your portfolio and puts you in a better position when the market turns. It's the "penny spared" part and puts you further ahead than you may realize.


Consider a foot race. Unnecessary losses are like starting the race by going in the wrong direction. Once you decide to turn around, you first have to get back to the starting line before you can catch up to the competitors that left you behind.


When markets are in a sideways trend, even standing still at the starting line is preferable to losing ground. The more trading you do when the market is not advantageous exposes you to greater risk of getting further behind.


That's why activity has been light on IBD's SwingTrader this summer. June was a tough month starting on June 9 when a 1.8% drop **(1)** wiped out two weeks of progress in the Nasdaq composite. The index tried to snap back over the next couple weeks and three trades were cautiously put on SwingTrader to try to capitalize on a potential reversal. All three closed with gains, though one was slight.


A downside reversal on June 26 impeded progress **(2)** and eventually led to the index crossing below the 50-day moving average line **(3)**. Only one trade was attempted and it was removed after a day to protect profit.


We tried another cautious attempt at gaining traction, adding nine trades over a couple weeks starting on July 7 **(4)** after the markets showed signs of bottoming. New highs were made on the Nasdaq but then another downside reversal changed the tone **(5)**. Activity on SwingTrader also lessened as a result. Since then, only two trades have been put on and caution remains high. Especially as the Nasdaq has now breached its 50-day moving average line **(6)** twice.


Has that caution potentially cost us? Chinese stocks have had some big moves over the summer and another earnings season provided some opportunities for profit. But the choppiness has also been fraught with danger and plenty of promising looking setups turned into outsized losses. In that environment, we'll continue to save our pennies.


More details on Past Trades are accessible to subscribers and trialists to SwingTrader. Free trials are available.


**RELATED:**


[How To Navigate A Sideways Market](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/how-to-navigate-a-sideways-market/)


[Watching From The Sidelines Is Best In Sideways Markets](https://www.investors.com/research/swing-trading/watching-from-the-sidelines-is-best-in-sideways-markets/)


[Swing Trading Strategies And Lessons](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/)




