---
layout: page
title: >-
  You Don't Need Stocks To Go Up To Profit
date: 2017-01-13 15:16 -0800
image: /assets/img/swing-trading/2017-01-13.jpg
author: JUSTIN NIELSEN
---





Some markets just don't produce winners, no matter how hard you look. Sitting on the sidelines is a justifiable alternative — it's much better than losing money. However, you could take another approach: If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.


When you have a segment of stocks breaking down or reversing lower while the market is weakening, this can be an ideal time to short stocks. Shorting reverses the order of buy low and sell high for stock profits, instead, you sell high and buy low. You borrow stock from your broker and sell it on the open market.


If the stock goes down, you can buy it back at a lower price and return the shares you borrowed. The difference in price is your profit. If the stock goes up, at some point you may need to "cover" your position to reduce your losses. When buying the shares back at a higher price, the difference in price is your loss on the trade.


An attractive part about buying stocks is that your risk is always limited (the worst that can happen is the stock goes to 0), while the potential reward is unlimited. With shorting it's the opposite, your reward is limited and your risk is unlimited. Another downside to shorting is you don't get the effects of compounding within a trade. On the long side, if your stock goes up 5% one week and another 5% the next, you will make more money on the second week because of compounding. With shorting, if the stock goes down 5% the first week and down another 5% the second week, you make less money the second week. That makes [swing trading](https://www.investors.com/ibd-university/swing-trading/) for shorting particularly attractive.


The things to look for in a short sale are lower Relative Price Strength ratings, a struggling market, a weak industry group, and either a reversal from an area of resistance or a breakdown below a prior level of support.


**Nordstrom** ([JWN](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=JWN)) checked out last year and was eventually added on to IBD's SwingTrader product. The stock was in a downtrend for nearly a year when it started to rally back above its 50-day moving average as the market firmed up a year ago **(1)**. The rally was short lived and on April 7, the stock fell below the 50-day again **(2)**. Nordstrom rallied back to the 50-day and reversed **(3)** followed by another attempt and reversal **(4)**. At the second reversal, the Market Action on SwingTrader turned to Downtrend suggesting more of a bias toward shorting.


The stock was added as a short sale to SwingTrader at 50.86 on April 29 as the stock broke below the support level for the week **(5)** on a pickup in volume. The Relative Price Strength Rating was weak at 20 and the department stores industry group was a dismal No. 196 out of 197. The stock dropped and in just four days the position was covered at 48.30 on May 5 with a 5% profit **(6)**.


A complete history of past trades, as well as current ideas, is available to subscribers and trialists of IBD's SwingTrader. [Free trials](http://shop.investors.com/offer/splashresponsive.aspx?id=SwingTrader&src=A011LPH) are available.




