---
layout: page
title: >-
  Too Many Stock Splits Can Signal A Share-Price Peak
date: 2012-05-30 17:08 -0700
author: SCOTT STODDARD
---




**Sell Winners Like A Pro:** [Seventh In A Series](http://news.investors.com/specialreport/611488/201205211612/how-to-sell-winners-like-a-pro.aspx)

  

Companies with high share prices often conduct stock splits to lure more investors. But too many splits can signal that the share price has peaked and it's time to sell.

  

Stock splits work as follows: In a 2-to-1 split, an investor who owns one share of a stock at \$100 gets two shares worth \$50 each.

  

Investors who previously couldn't afford a share of stock may now be able to buy, potentially allowing the company to raise more money. Companies sometimes split their stocks in a 3-to-1 ratio, a 4-to-1 ratio or even a 10-to-1 ratio.

  

While a single stock split might be effective early in a new bull market, two or three splits could flood the market and weigh on the share price. That's especially true if the splits come within just a year or two of each other.

  

"A stock will often reach a price top around the second or third time it splits," wrote IBD founder and Chairman William O'Neil in "How to Make Money in Stocks."

  

Furthermore, IBD research has shown that only 18% of the biggest winners had splits in the year before their big run-ups.

  

**Quality Systems** ([QSII](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=QSII)), a provider of health care information technology products, broke out above an 18.15 buy point from a flat base on top of a longer base on Oct. 21, 2002 (before splits). By early 2005, the stock had doubled. The company announced a 2-to-1 stock split taking effect April 1 **1** (monthly chart is shown).

  

Quality Systems continued to rise sharply after the move, hitting a split-adjusted high of 45.97 in the week ended Feb. 10, 2006. That peak roughly coincided with a declaration of a second 2-to-1 split on Jan. 31, 2006, just one year after the first split **2**.

  

But by around the time the second split took effect on March 31, the stock had plummeted 38% to a trough of 28.30 **3**. It traded sideways for the next 2-1/2 years as the S&P 500 trended higher.

  

Other stocks that had their big runs halted following a rush of stock splits included **Hansen's Natural** ([MNST](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=MNST)) (now Monster Beverage) in 2005 and 2006, **Titanium Metals** ([TIE](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=TIE)) in 2004 to 2006 and **Dell** ([DELL](https://research.investors.com/quote.aspx?symbol=DELL)) in the late 1990s.

  

A pair of 2-to-1 stock splits launched by Quality Systems resulted in a quadrupling in shares outstanding. The dramatic rise in share supply can put a lot of downward pressure on a stock, especially in a market correction.

  

"Knowledgeable pros and a few shrewd individual traders will probably use the excitement generated by the oversized split as an opportunity to sell and take their profits," O'Neil wrote.

  

Obviously, you want to buy a stock that's in strong demand. In that case, it may be best to look for companies that buy back their shares, reducing supply, rather than chasing stock splits.




